
1. Installation of VS Code
Steps to Download and Install Visual Studio Code on Windows 11
Prerequisites:
Windows 11 operating system
Internet connection
Steps:
Download Visual Studio Code:

Visit the Visual Studio Code download page.
Click on the "Windows" button to download the VS Code installer.
Install Visual Studio Code:

Open the downloaded installer (e.g., VSCodeUserSetup-x64-<version>.exe).
Follow the installation wizard:
Accept the license agreement.
Choose the destination folder.
Select additional tasks (e.g., create a desktop icon, add to PATH, etc.).
Click "Install" to complete the installation.
Launch Visual Studio Code:

After installation, launch VS Code from the Start menu or desktop icon.
2. First-time Setup
Initial Configurations and Settings:
Theme and Appearance:

Go to File > Preferences > Color Theme and choose a preferred theme.
Extensions:

Open the Extensions view (Ctrl+Shift+X).
Install essential extensions such as:
Python: Provides support for Python development.
Prettier: Code formatter.
ESLint: Linting for JavaScript and TypeScript.
GitLens: Enhances Git capabilities.
Settings Sync:

Sign in with your GitHub or Microsoft account to sync settings across devices.
Editor Settings:

Go to File > Preferences > Settings (Ctrl+,).
Adjust settings like font size, line height, and tab size.
3. User Interface Overview
Main Components of the VS Code User Interface:
Activity Bar:

Located on the far left.
Contains icons for different views like Explorer, Search, Source Control, Run, and Extensions.
Side Bar:

Displays the content of the selected view from the Activity Bar.
Commonly shows file explorer, search results, or Git changes.
Editor Group:

The central area where files are opened and edited.
Supports multiple editor groups for side-by-side editing.
Status Bar:

Located at the bottom.
Displays information like line/column number, Git branch, and language mode.
4. Command Palette
What is the Command Palette and How to Access It:
The Command Palette is a tool that allows quick access to commands and features in VS Code.
Access it using Ctrl+Shift+P.
Examples of Common Tasks:
Open a file: > Open File
Open settings: > Preferences: Open Settings
Run tasks: > Tasks: Run Task
5. Extensions in VS Code
Role of Extensions:
Extensions add functionality to VS Code, supporting additional languages, debuggers, and tools.
Finding, Installing, and Managing Extensions:
Finding Extensions:

Open the Extensions view (Ctrl+Shift+X).
Use the search bar to find extensions.
Installing Extensions:

Click the "Install" button on the desired extension.
Managing Extensions:

Use the Extensions view to disable, enable, or uninstall extensions.
Examples of Essential Extensions for Web Development:
Live Server: Launch a local development server.
HTML Snippets: Adds support for HTML snippets.
CSS IntelliSense: CSS class name completion.
6. Integrated Terminal
How to Open and Use the Integrated Terminal:
Open Integrated Terminal:

Use `Ctrl+`` to toggle the terminal.
Alternatively, go to View > Terminal.
Advantages of Using the Integrated Terminal:

Directly run commands within VS Code.
Access to terminal without leaving the editor.
Multiple terminal instances supported.
7. File and Folder Management
Creating, Opening, and Managing Files and Folders:
Creating Files and Folders:

Right-click in the Explorer view and select "New File" or "New Folder".
Opening Files and Folders:

Use the Explorer view to navigate and open files.
Use Ctrl+P to quickly open files by name.
Navigating Files and Directories:

Use the Explorer view and breadcrumbs for easy navigation.
Split editor (Ctrl+\) for side-by-side file editing.
8. Settings and Preferences
Customizing Settings:
Open Settings:

Go to File > Preferences > Settings (Ctrl+,).
Changing Theme:

File > Preferences > Color Theme and select a theme.
Adjusting Font Size:

Search for font size in the Settings and adjust the value.
Modifying Keybindings:

File > Preferences > Keyboard Shortcuts to customize keybindings.
9. Debugging in VS Code
Setting Up and Starting Debugging:
Open Debug View:

Click the Run icon in the Activity Bar or use Ctrl+Shift+D.
Add a Debug Configuration:

Click create a launch.json file and select the environment.
Start Debugging:

Set breakpoints by clicking in the gutter next to the line numbers.
Click the green play button or press F5 to start debugging.
Key Debugging Features:
Breakpoints
Step over/into/out
Watch expressions
Call stack
10. Using Source Control
Integrating Git with VS Code:
Initialize a Repository:

Open the Source Control view (Ctrl+Shift+G).
Click "Initialize Repository".
Making Commits:

Stage changes by clicking the "+" icon next to modified files.
Enter a commit message and click the checkmark to commit.
Pushing Changes to GitHub:

Open the terminal in VS Code.
Add a remote repository:
bash
Copy code
git remote add origin https://github.com/yourusername/your-repository.git
Push changes:
bash
